    No love toward others in that bosom sits
    That on himself such murd'rous shame commits.
                     10
  For shame deny that thou bear'st love to any
  Who for thy self art so unprovident.
  Grant if thou wilt, thou art beloved of many,
  But that thou none lov'st is most evident:
  For thou art so possessed with murd'rous hate,
  That 'gainst thy self thou stick'st not to conspire,
  Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
  Which to repair should be thy chief desire:
--
                              [Kisses them. IRAS falls and dies]
    Have I the aspic in my lips? Dost fall?
    If thus thou and nature can so gently part,
    The stroke of death is as a lover's pinch,
    Which hurts and is desir'd. Dost thou lie still?
    If thou vanishest, thou tell'st the world
    It is not worth leave-taking.
  CHARMIAN. Dissolve, thick cloud, and rain, that I may say
    The gods themselves do weep.
  CLEOPATRA. This proves me base.
    If she first meet the curled Antony,
--
  CELIA. Is it possible?
  ROSALIND. Nay, I prithee now, with most petitionary vehemence, tell
    me who it is.
  CELIA. O wonderful, wonderful, most wonderful wonderful, and yet
    again wonderful, and after that, out of all whooping!
  ROSALIND. Good my complexion! dost thou think, though I am
    caparison'd like a man, I have a doublet and hose in my
    disposition? One inch of delay more is a South Sea of discovery.
    I prithee tell me who is it quickly, and speak apace. I would
    thou could'st stammer, that thou mightst pour this conceal'd man
    out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of narrow-mouth'd bottle-
--
  This is the fairy land. O spite of spites!
  We talk with goblins, owls, and sprites.
  If we obey them not, this will ensue:
  They'll suck our breath, or pinch us black and blue.
LUCIANA. Why prat'st thou to thyself, and answer'st not?
  Dromio, thou drone, thou snail, thou slug, thou sot!
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. I am transformed, master, am not I?
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. I think thou art in mind, and so am I.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. Nay, master, both in mind and in my shape.
ANTIPHOLUS OF SYRACUSE. Thou hast thine own form.
DROMIO OF SYRACUSE. No, I am an ape.
--
  And that to-morrow you will bring it home.
  But here's a villain that would face me down
  He met me on the mart, and that I beat him,
  And charg'd him with a thousand marks in gold,
  And that I did deny my wife and house.
  Thou drunkard, thou, what didst thou mean by this?
DROMIO OF EPHESUS. Say what you will, sir, but I know what I know.
  That you beat me at the mart I have your hand to show;
  If the skin were parchment, and the blows you gave were ink,
  Your own handwriting would tell you what I think.
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. I think thou art an ass.
--
ADRIANA. O, bind him, bind him; let him not come near me.
PINCH. More company! The fiend is strong within him.
Enter three or four, and offer to bind him. He strives

LUCIANA. Ay me, poor man, how pale and wan he looks!
ANTIPHOLUS OF EPHESUS. What, will you murder me? Thou gaoler, thou,
  I am thy prisoner. Wilt thou suffer them
  To make a rescue?
OFFICER. Masters, let him go;
  He is my prisoner, and you shall not have him.
PINCH. Go bind this man, for he is frantic too.
[They bind DROMIO]
ADRIANA. What wilt thou do, thou peevish officer?
  Hast thou delight to see a wretched man
  Do outrage and displeasure to himself?
OFFICER. He is my prisoner; if I let him go,
  The debt he owes will be requir'd of me.
ADRIANA. I will discharge thee ere I go from thee;
--
  Host. I am no thing to thank God on, I would thou shouldst know it!
    I am an honest man's wife, and, setting thy knight-hood aside,
    thou art a knave to call me so.
  Fal. Setting thy womanhood aside, thou art a beast to say
    otherwise.
  Host. Say, what beast, thou knave, thou?
  Fal. What beast? Why, an otter.
  Prince. An otter, Sir John? Why an otter?
  Fal. Why, she's neither fish nor flesh; a man knows not where to
    have her.
  Host. Thou art an unjust man in saying so. Thou or any man knows
    where to have me, thou knave, thou!
  Prince. Thou say'st true, hostess, and he slanders thee most
    grossly.
  Host. So he doth you, my lord, and said this other day you ought
    him a thousand pound.
  Prince. Sirrah, do I owe you a thousand pound?
--
  HOSTESS. O God, that right should thus overcome might!
    Well, of sufferance comes ease.
  DOLL. Come, you rogue, come; bring me to a justice.
  HOSTESS. Ay, come, you starv'd bloodhound.
  DOLL. Goodman death, goodman bones!
  HOSTESS. Thou atomy, thou!
  DOLL. Come, you thin thing! come, you rascal!
  FIRST BEADLE. Very well. Exeunt
SCENE V. Westminster. Near the Abbey

Enter GROOMS, strewing rushes
--
    full of deceits?
  ALICE. Oui, dat de tongues of de mans is be full of deceits- dat is
    de Princess.
  KING HENRY. The Princess is the better English-woman. I' faith,
    Kate, my wooing is fit for thy understanding: I am glad thou
    canst speak no better English; for if thou couldst, thou wouldst
    find me such a plain king that thou wouldst think I had sold my
    farm to buy my crown. I know no ways to mince it in love, but
    directly to say 'I love you.' Then, if you urge me farther than
    to say 'Do you in faith?' I wear out my suit. Give me your
    answer; i' faith, do; and so clap hands and a bargain. How say
--
  PUCELLE. I prithee give me leave to curse awhile.
  YORK. Curse, miscreant, when thou comest to the stake.
                                                          Exeunt
Alarum. Enter SUFFOLK, with MARGARET in his hand

  SUFFOLK. Be what thou wilt, thou art my prisoner.
                                                  [Gazes on her]
    O fairest beauty, do not fear nor fly!
    For I will touch thee but with reverent hands;
    I kiss these fingers for eternal peace,
    And lay them gently on thy tender side.
--
  WHITMORE. I lost mine eye in laying the prize aboard,
    [To SUFFOLK] And therefore, to revenge it, shalt thou die;
    And so should these, if I might have my will.
  LIEUTENANT. Be not so rash; take ransom, let him live.
  SUFFOLK. Look on my George, I am a gentleman:
    Rate me at what thou wilt, thou shalt be paid.
  WHITMORE. And so am I: my name is Walter Whitmore.
    How now! Why start'st thou? What, doth death affright?
  SUFFOLK. Thy name affrights me, in whose sound is death.
    A cunning man did calculate my birth
    And told me that by water I should die;
--
    Envenom him with words, or get thee gone
    And leave those woes alone which I alone
    Am bound to under-bear.
  SALISBURY. Pardon me, madam,
    I may not go without you to the kings.
  CONSTANCE. Thou mayst, thou shalt; I will not go with thee;
    I will instruct my sorrows to be proud,
    For grief is proud, and makes his owner stoop.
    To me, and to the state of my great grief,
    Let kings assemble; for my grief's so great
    That no supporter but the huge firm earth
--
    Set armed discord 'twixt these perjur'd kings!
    Hear me, O, hear me!
  AUSTRIA. Lady Constance, peace!
  CONSTANCE. War! war! no peace! Peace is to me a war.
    O Lymoges! O Austria! thou dost shame
    That bloody spoil. Thou slave, thou wretch, thou coward!
    Thou little valiant, great in villainy!
    Thou ever strong upon the stronger side!
    Thou Fortune's champion that dost never fight
    But when her humorous ladyship is by
    To teach thee safety! Thou art perjur'd too,
--

  FIRST MURTHERER. Where is your husband?
  LADY MACDUFF. I hope, in no place so unsanctified
    Where such as thou mayst find him.
  FIRST MURTHERER. He's a traitor.
  SON. Thou liest, thou shag-ear'd villain!
  FIRST MURTHERER. What, you egg!
                                                      Stabs him.
    Young fry of treachery!
  SON. He has kill'd me, Mother.
    Run away, I pray you! Dies.
--
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your good worship for it. What is't your
    worship's pleasure I shall do with this wicked caitiff?
  ESCALUS. Truly, officer, because he hath some offences in him that
    thou wouldst discover if thou couldst, let him continue in his
    courses till thou know'st what they are.
  ELBOW. Marry, I thank your worship for it. Thou seest, thou wicked
    varlet, now, what's come upon thee: thou art to continue now,
    thou varlet; thou art to continue.
  ESCALUS. Where were you born, friend?
  FROTH. Here in Vienna, sir.
  ESCALUS. Are you of fourscore pounds a year?
--
  HERMIA. Lysander, whereto tends all this?
  LYSANDER. Away, you Ethiope!
  DEMETRIUS. No, no, he will
    Seem to break loose- take on as you would follow,
    But yet come not. You are a tame man; go!
  LYSANDER. Hang off, thou cat, thou burr; vile thing, let loose,
    Or I will shake thee from me like a serpent.
  HERMIA. Why are you grown so rude? What change is this,
    Sweet love?
  LYSANDER. Thy love! Out, tawny Tartar, out!
    Out, loathed med'cine! O hated potion, hence!
--
  PUCK. Follow me, then,
    To plainer ground. Exit LYSANDER as following the voice
Enter DEMETRIUS

  DEMETRIUS. Lysander, speak again.
    Thou runaway, thou coward, art thou fled?
    Speak! In some bush? Where dost thou hide thy head?
  PUCK. Thou coward, art thou bragging to the stars,
    Telling the bushes that thou look'st for wars,
    And wilt not come? Come, recreant, come, thou child;
    I'll whip thee with a rod. He is defil'd
--
    Prince's officer coxcomb. Come, bind them.—Thou naughty varlet!
  Con. Away! you are an ass, you are an ass.
  Dog. Dost thou not suspect my place? Dost thou not suspect my
    years? O that he were here to write me down an ass! But, masters,
    remember that I am an ass. Though it be not written down, yet
    forget not that I am an ass. No, thou villain, thou art full of
    piety, as shall be prov'd upon thee by good witness. I am a wise
    fellow; and which is more, an officer; and which is more, a
    householder; and which is more, as pretty a piece of flesh as any
    is in Messina, and one that knows the law, go to! and a rich
    fellow enough, go to! and a fellow that hath had losses; and one
--
    Are you so hasty now? Well, all is one.
  Pedro. Nay, do not quarrel with us, good old man.
  Ant. If he could right himself with quarrelling,
    Some of us would lie low.
  Claud. Who wrongs him?
  Leon. Marry, thou dost wrong me, thou dissembler, thou!
    Nay, never lay thy hand upon thy sword;
    I fear thee not.
  Claud. Mary, beshrew my hand
    If it should give your age such cause of fear.
    In faith, my hand meant nothing to my sword.
--
  IAGO. You, Roderigo! Come, sir, I am for you.
  OTHELLO. Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
    Good signior, you shall more command with years
    Than with your weapons.
  BRABANTIO. O thou foul thief, where hast thou stow'd my daughter?
    Damn'd as thou art, thou hast enchanted her,
    For I'll refer me to all things of sense,
    If she in chains of magic were not bound,
    Whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy,
    So opposite to marriage that she shunn'd
    The wealthy, curled darlings of our nation,
--
    Since thou dost seek to kill my name in me,
    I mock my name, great king, to flatter thee.
  KING RICHARD. Should dying men flatter with those that live?
  GAUNT. No, no; men living flatter those that die.
  KING RICHARD. Thou, now a-dying, sayest thou flatterest me.
  GAUNT. O, no! thou diest, though I the sicker be.
  KING RICHARD. I am in health, I breathe, and see thee ill.
  GAUNT. Now He that made me knows I see thee ill;
    Ill in myself to see, and in thee seeing ill.
    Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land
    Wherein thou liest in reputation sick;
--
    crown
    Where't should be branded, if that right were right,
    The slaughter of the Prince that ow'd that crown,
    And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers?
    Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children?
  DUCHESS. Thou toad, thou toad, where is thy brother
    Clarence?
    And little Ned Plantagenet, his son?
  QUEEN ELIZABETH. Where is the gentle Rivers, Vaughan,
    Grey?
  DUCHESS. Where is kind Hastings?
--
  Samp. Ay, the heads of the maids, or their maidenheads.
    Take it in what sense thou wilt.
  Greg. They must take it in sense that feel it.
  Samp. Me they shall feel while I am able to stand; and 'tis known I
    am a pretty piece of flesh.
  Greg. 'Tis well thou art not fish; if thou hadst, thou hadst been
    poor-John. Draw thy tool! Here comes two of the house of
    Montagues.
Enter two other Servingmen [Abram and Balthasar].

  Samp. My naked weapon is out. Quarrel! I will back thee.
--

  Lady. Why, how now, Juliet?
  Jul. Madam, I am not well.
  Lady. Evermore weeping for your cousin's death?
    What, wilt thou wash him from his grave with tears?
    An if thou couldst, thou couldst not make him live.
    Therefore have done. Some grief shows much of love;
    But much of grief shows still some want of wit.
  Jul. Yet let me weep for such a feeling loss.
  Lady. So shall you feel the loss, but not the friend
    Which you weep for.
--
  KATHERINA. I never saw a better fashion'd gown,
    More quaint, more pleasing, nor more commendable;
    Belike you mean to make a puppet of me.
  PETRUCHIO. Why, true; he means to make a puppet of thee.
  TAILOR. She says your worship means to make a puppet of her.
  PETRUCHIO. O monstrous arrogance! Thou liest, thou thread, thou
      thimble,
    Thou yard, three-quarters, half-yard, quarter, nail,
    Thou flea, thou nit, thou winter-cricket thou-
    Brav'd in mine own house with a skein of thread!
    Away, thou rag, thou quantity, thou remnant;
    Or I shall so bemete thee with thy yard
    As thou shalt think on prating whilst thou liv'st!
    I tell thee, I, that thou hast marr'd her gown.
  TAILOR. Your worship is deceiv'd; the gown is made
    Just as my master had direction.
--
    I do not love to look on.
  PROSPERO. But as 'tis,
    We cannot miss him: he does make our fire,
    Fetch in our wood, and serves in offices
    That profit us. What ho! slave! Caliban!
    Thou earth, thou! Speak.
  CALIBAN. [ Within] There's wood enough within.
  PROSPERO. Come forth, I say; there's other business for thee.
    Come, thou tortoise! when?
Re-enter ARIEL like a water-nymph

--

  CALIBAN. As I told thee before, I am subject to a tyrant,
    sorcerer, that by his cunning hath cheated me of the
    island.
  ARIEL. Thou liest.
  CALIBAN. Thou liest, thou jesting monkey, thou;
    I would my valiant master would destroy thee.
    I do not lie.
  STEPHANO. Trinculo, if you trouble him any more in's tale,
    by this hand, I will supplant some of your teeth.
  TRINCULO. Why, I said nothing.
--
    but a filthy piece of work.
  PAINTER. Y'are a dog.
  APEMANTUS. Thy mother's of my generation; what's she, if I be a dog?
  TIMON. Wilt dine with me, Apemantus?
  APEMANTUS. No; I eat not lords.
  TIMON. An thou shouldst, thou'dst anger ladies.
  APEMANTUS. O, they eat lords; so they come by great bellies.
  TIMON. That's a lascivious apprehension.
  APEMANTUS. So thou apprehend'st it take it for thy labour.
  TIMON. How dost thou like this jewel, Apemantus?
  APEMANTUS. Not so well as plain dealing, which will not cost a man
--
    ass. If thou wert the ass, thy dulness would torment thee; and
    still thou liv'dst but as a breakfast to the wolf. If thou wert
    the wolf, thy greediness would afflict thee, and oft thou
    shouldst hazard thy life for thy dinner. Wert thou the unicorn,
    pride and wrath would confound thee, and make thine own self the
    conquest of thy fury. Wert thou bear, thou wouldst be kill'd by
    the horse; wert thou a horse, thou wouldst be seiz'd by the
    leopard; wert thou a leopard, thou wert german to the lion, and
    the spots of thy kindred were jurors on thy life. All thy safety
    were remotion, and thy defence absence. What beast couldst thou
    be that were not subject to a beast? And what beast art thou
--
  FABIAN. More matter for a May morning.
  AGUECHEEK. Here's the challenge; read it. I warrant there's vinegar
    and pepper in't.
  FABIAN. Is't so saucy?
  AGUECHEEK. Ay, is't, I warrant him; do but read.
  SIR TOBY. Give me. [Reads] 'Youth, whatsoever thou art, thou art
    but a scurvy fellow.'
  FABIAN. Good and valiant.
  SIR TOBY. [Reads] 'Wonder not, nor admire not in thy mind, why I do
    call thee so, for I will show thee no reason for't.'
  FABIAN. A good note; that keeps you from the blow of the law.
--
    In so entitling me; and no less honest
    Than you are mad; which is enough, I'll warrant,
    As this world goes, to pass for honest.
  LEONTES. Traitors!
    Will you not push her out? Give her the bastard.
    [To ANTIGONUS] Thou dotard, thou art woman-tir'd, unroosted
    By thy Dame Partlet here. Take up the bastard;
    Take't up, I say; give't to thy crone.
  PAULINA. For ever
    Unvenerable be thy hands, if thou
    Tak'st up the Princess by that forced baseness
